Document switching to external registries in the runtime (#10512)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/serverless/03-03-registries.md

---
title: Internal and external registries
type: Details
---

In its default configuration, Serverless uses persistent volumes as the internal registry to store Docker images for Functions. The default storage size of a single volume is 20 GB. This internal registry is suitable for local development.

If you use Serverless for production purposes, it is recommended that you use an external registry, such as Docker Hub, Google Container Registry (GCR), or Azure Container Registry (ACR).

Serverless supports two ways of connecting to an external registry:

- [You can set up an external registry before installation](#tutorials-set-an-external-docker-registry).

  In this scenario, you can use Kyma overrides to change the default values supplied by the installation mechanism.

- [You can switch to an external registry in the runtime](#tutorials-switch-to-an-external-docker-registry).

  In this scenario, you can change the registry on the fly, with Kyma already installed on your cluster. This option gives you way more flexibility and control over the choice of an external registry for your Functions.

## Switching registries in the runtime

> When you install Kyma with the default internal registry, Helm creates the `serverless-registry-config-default` Secret in the `kyma-system` Namespace. This Secret contains credentials used to pull and push your Functions' images to the internal registry.

Author: I will add it as a note :)

See this example:

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Secret
  type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
  metadata:
   name: serverless-registry-config
   namespace: default
   labels:
     serverless.kyma-project.io/remote-registry: config
  data:
   username: {VALUE}
   password: {VALUE}
   serverAddress: {VALUE}
   registryAddress: {VALUE}
  ```

### Cluster-wide external registry

If you want to switch to one external registry in the whole cluster, you must create a Secret CR in the `kyma-system` Namespace. The Secret CR must meet the same [requirements](#namespace-scoped-external-registry) as in the case of the Namespace-scoped setup, but you must also add the `serverless.kyma-project.io/config: credentials` label. This label ensures the Secret CR gets propagated to all Namespaces.

> **NOTE:** The cluster-wide configuration takes precedence over any Namespace-scoped one.

### How this works

This implementation has a fallback mechanism that works as follows:

1. Every 5 minutes, Function Controller checks if there is the `serverless-registry-config` Secret CR in the Namespace with your Function specifying the external registry to push the Function's image to.

> 2. If it doesn't find such a Secret CR, Function Controller uses the credentials to the internal registry specified in the default `serverless-registry-config-default` Secret CR.

Author: It is already a subsection to the "Switching registries in the runtime" section but I can mention it explicitly as well, to avoid any misunderstanding.

---
title: Internal and external registries
type: Details
---

In its default configuration, Serverless uses persistent volumes as the internal registry to store Docker images for Functions. The default storage size of a single volume is 20 GB. This internal registry is suitable for local development.

If you use Serverless for production purposes, it is recommended that you use an external registry, such as Docker Hub, Google Container Registry (GCR), or Azure Container Registry (ACR).

Serverless supports two ways of connecting to an external registry:

- [You can set up an external registry before installation](#tutorials-set-an-external-docker-registry).

  In this scenario, you can use Kyma overrides to change the default values supplied by the installation mechanism.

- [You can switch to an external registry in the runtime](#tutorials-switch-to-an-external-docker-registry).

  In this scenario, you can change the registry on the fly, with Kyma already installed on your cluster. This option gives you way more flexibility and control over the choice of an external registry for your Functions.

## Switching registries in the runtime

> When you install Kyma with the default internal registry, Helm creates the `serverless-registry-config-default` Secret in the `kyma-system` Namespace. This Secret contains credentials used by Kubernetes to pull deployed Functions' images from the internal registry. They also allow Kaniko to push any images to the registry each time a Function is created or updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you install Kyma with the default internal registry, Helm creates the `serverless-registry-config-default` Secret in the `kyma-system` Namespace. This Secret contains credentials used by Kubernetes to pull deployed Functions' images from the internal registry. It also allows Kaniko to push any images to the registry each time a Function is created or updated.
```
I think the third sentence refers to "this secret"?

Author: I meant `credentials` but maybe I will just repeat the word to make it clearer :)

> > **NOTE:** If you [install Serverless with overrides](#tutorials-set-an-external-docker-registry), disabling the internal registry and specifying an external one to use, the `serverless-registry-config-default` Secret will contain credentials to access the specified external registry instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** If you [install Serverless with overrides](#tutorials-set-an-external-docker-registry), disable the internal registry and specify an external one to use, the `serverless-registry-config-default` Secret will contain credentials to access the specified external registry instead.
```
That's just my preference, feel free to ignore 😺

Author: I modified it in this way (to better explain that installing with overrides means disabling the default internal registry):
```> **NOTE:** If you [install Serverless with overrides](#tutorials-set-an-external-docker-registry), you disable the internal registry and specify an external one to use. The `serverless-registry-config-default` Secret will then contain credentials to the specified external registry instead of the internal one.```

Once you have Serverless up and running, you can switch to an external registry:

- Per Namespace, and have even multiple external registries in a cluster, but no more than one per Namespace.
- Cluster-wide, with this configuration overwriting any Namespace-scoped.

### Namespace-scoped external registry

To switch to an external registry in a given Namespace, create a Secret CR that:

- Is named `serverless-registry-config`.
- Is of type `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson`.
- Has the `serverless.kyma-project.io/remote-registry: config` label.
- Contains these keys with valid values pointing to the external registry:
  - **username**
  - **password**
  - **serverAddress**
  - **registryAddress**

See this example:

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Secret
  type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
  metadata:
   name: serverless-registry-config
   namespace: default
   labels:
     serverless.kyma-project.io/remote-registry: config
  data:
   username: {VALUE}
   password: {VALUE}
   serverAddress: {VALUE}
   registryAddress: {VALUE}
  ```

### Cluster-wide external registry

> If you want to switch to one external registry in the whole cluster, you must create a Secret CR in the `kyma-system` Namespace. The Secret CR must meet the same [requirements](#namespace-scoped-external-registry) as in the case of the Namespace-scoped setup, but you must also add the `serverless.kyma-project.io/config: credentials` label. This label ensures the Secret CR gets propagated to all Namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To switch to one external registry in the whole cluster, create a Secret CR in the `kyma-system` Namespace. The Secret CR must meet the same [requirements](#namespace-scoped-external-registry) as in the case of the Namespace-scoped setup, but you must also add the `serverless.kyma-project.io/config: credentials` label. This label ensures the Secret CR gets propagated to all Namespaces.
```
That's just my preference, feel free to ignore.

Author: I will shorten the beginning of the sentence but would somehow like to stress the second part so will stick to `must`, if you don't mind :)
